- [Instructor] It is pretty common
for a batch job
to create a flat-file
so out of the box, Spring Batch provides
the FlatFileItemWriter implementation
that allows us to write job output
to a flat-file.
We're going to be building out
a FlatFileItemWriter implementation within our job.
It is going to receive data
that is read from our current ItemReader,
which is pulling information from the SHIPPED_ORDER table.
And we're going to use the information
that is read by this reader
as the output for our FlatFileItemWriter.
We'll write the output to a CSV file located
on the file system.
So to get started, the first thing
that we need to do
is modify our job configuration.
Currently, we have this in line ItemWriter
and we need to replace that
with a different implementation.
In this case, we're going
to be using the FlatFileItemWriter.
I'm just going to create a stub method named itemWriter
and that's where we're going to build out
that configuration so once we have the stub,
just hit Control + one while you've hovering over it
and then you can select the create method.
And this is going to place the method within the class.
I'm going to go ahead and pull that up within our class.
That way we have some space to work.
And the first thing we need to do
is add the Bean annotation
because our ItemWriter will be declared as a bean
within our Spring IOC container.
Then I'm going to make our ItemWriter public
and then modify the generic type argument
to just be of type Order.
And at this point, we're ready to start the configuration
of our flat-file ItemWriter.
So within the body of this method,
I'm going to create the FlatFileItemWriter object.
It does accept a generic argument.
In this case, because we're writing orders,
I'm going to go ahead and add the Order type there
and then I'm going to name this object itemWriter
and we can use its new operator and constructor
in order to create an instance of it.
So when we write this output,
it's going to go to a file on the file system
and we can specify what file that will be
by setting the setResource method on the itemWriter
and in this case, we're going
to use a new FileSystemResource.
So we'll go ahead and use the constructor
for that object to specify a path
where we would like this output to be written.
So I'm going to write this file to the data directory
within the root of my file system
and then I'm going to give it the name
of the file I would like written.
It's going to be shipped_orders_output.csv.
And now we've configured our ItemWriter for where
to write the output.
The next thing we need to do
is give the ItemWriter instructions
for how to take a POJO
and turn it into a line within our CSV file.
To do that, we use a DelimitedLineAggregator
so we can pull in that type
which also requires us to specify a generic type
of the type of object
that we're going to be writing out.
So we're going to be using an order POJO
and that ultimately will be converted
to a line in our CSV.
I'm going to name our aggregator simply aggregator
and then once again, we use the new operator
and a constructor
in order to create that object.
So this is kind of the counterpart
to the line mapper we saw
when we were reading a CSV file.
The line mapper was all about decomposing a line
in a CSV and building a POJO
whereas the DelimitedLineAggregator
is going to extract the field values from a POJO
and then aggregate them together
into that line within the CSV
and one of the pieces of information it's going to need
in order to build that line
is the delimiter we'd like to use.
Since we're building a CSV,
I'm just going to go ahead and specify a comma there.
And then the next piece of configuration
is a little bit more complex.
We need to create an object of type BeanFieldExtractor
and this object is going
to be used to pull the values from the fields
in our order POJO.
Let's go ahead and we'll name this our fieldExtractor object
and then once again, we use the constructor
in order to instantiate it.
Now, we need to supply a little bit of configuration here
and you'll see within this object,
there is the setNames method.
So this method accepts a string containing the names
of the fields on the POJO we would like
to extract the values from.
So within our class,
I've actually added the names
of those fields so if we take a look
at the top of the class,
here's a string array named names
and within it, I've just added, as a string,
the name of each field we have on the order POJO.
And we can use that within our configuration.
Okay, the next thing that we need to do
is on the aggregator,
we need to set our field extractor
so we'll simply inject the fieldExtrator instance
into that setter method
and then on our itemWriter,
we need to go ahead and set our LineAggregator
and we can just pass in the aggregator
that we created.
And then in the final line of this method,
we're going to return our itemWriter
and that itemWriter will then be used
within our chunk-based step
in order to write that output to a CSV file.
Okay, so everything is configured.
Let's head over to the terminal
and then we're simply going to kick off our job
with the script.
And once the project is built into a jar,
our job will begin to execute
and we should have our CSV file written to the file system.
Okay, it looks like the job completed.
Let's navigate over to that data directory
and there we can see the shipped_orders_output.csv file.
We can go ahead and open that up
and take a look at it.
And once the file loads,
there we can see that all of the data
within our table in the database
was written by our chunk-based step
and its itemWriter to this CSV file.
So similar to item readers,
there are many out-of-the-box item writers provided
by Spring Batch.
We just need to provide the instructions
to those item writers on how to read our POJOs
and write out the output.
We're going to see a few more in action
as we work through this chapter.